- Aaron, Nate, and Jake, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
- Hey, how's it going?
- Hey, y'all.
It's going really well.
I'm excited to be on the data science side
of the world today with you guys.
- Cool, so are we.
- Yeah, yeah, you built some really neat tools
to help people get started and get up to speed
and just be more efficient than just solely writing
Python code, but not, you know, excluding that either
with your product, Mito.
So that's super fun, and we're gonna talk about that.
But before we do, let's just kind of go around
and how'd you get interested in data science
and working on this Python tool?
Aaron, you wanna go first?
- Yeah, so a little background.
Jake and I, you can't tell just by the first names,
but we are twin brothers.
So we've been working on projects together for a long time.
Nate has been our best friend since middle school.
I think I didn't get invited to his eighth grade birthday.
So I think maybe starting in high school.
And then he also went to college with us.
And I think like, yeah,
we got our first like taste of data science at Penn.
We all studied a mix of computer science and business.
And in the business classes,
you do a lot of Excel based,
mostly unfortunately Excel based data analytics work
and stat classes and finance classes and stuff like that.
So I think that's really where we got our first taste
of data analytics or data science work.
And then we've each had some experiences,
new internships and jobs that we've had
over the past few years in the data science space as well.
But really, I think it all goes back
to the beginnings of the courseworks that we did at Penn.
- Yeah, very cool.
And it's great that you all are able to stay together.
I mean, obviously brothers,
but continue to work together on this project.
business schools, the whole business programs
just run on Excel, don't they?
- Yeah, it's really, it's kind of amazing, the contrast,
because, so Aaron and I specifically both got degrees
in computer science and in the business school,
and so there was this transition where you'd be hanging out
in class in the engineering school,
and you'd be writing code,
and then you would walk up campus into the business school,
and it'd be like returning to the dark ages in some ways.
- Yeah.
- And what's really cool, I think, about Excel generally
is that what we observed is that it let our peers in school
and us as well kind of complete really amazing projects
that we might have not been able to do with code
because our skills, we were still learning at that point.
So it's really kind of this really beginner friendly,
amazingly powerful tool for what it is.
But then we would go back down to the engineering school
and be like, oh my God, there's all this tooling here.
We could have superpowers,
but we don't know how to use this stuff.
And so there was this very direct contrast
that we witnessed where there's very cool stuff happening
all over the place, but the tooling differential
is pretty dramatic between business school
and computer science world.
And I think that's kind of what initially
made us interested in this space.
- Sure, you don't want to underestimate the power
of just firing up Excel, selecting a section,
throwing up a graph or two, and that's incredible.
And all of the functions and stuff,
but if you think of bad programming practices,
one of the worst ones has got to be like,
do these three things and then go to over here
and then do a couple of things,
then go over there and then get that thing and then go back.
You know, we've banished this type of programming from regular programming long ago.
And Excel is like that without even being able to see where they go to his point.
It's really not very predictable, right?
Yeah, it's really amazing.
And it's really it's crazy, I think, because once you start thinking about spreadsheets, you quickly realize,
I mean, there's a couple crazy things about spreadsheets that people don't really acknowledge.
We, you know, talk about them internally, because we're spreadsheet nerds at this point.
And, you know, we like, you know, hyping up spreadsheets and stuff.
But it's like, you know, the original killer applications of computers were spreadsheets, right?
Oh, yeah.
And more than that, it's, it's, spreadsheets are the most successful programming environment in the world.
Hundreds of millions of people can program in Excel,
the next leading programming language has 10, 20 million, you know what I mean?
So it's really, there's an order of magnitude difference in how, you know, well adopted these things are.
But you're totally right.
The number of foot guns in Excel and the amount of like 50 megabyte insane models that we've seen where people are like,
it's 75 tabs and they're all linked to each other in some crazy circular way.
It's really slow. I don't know why.
I know.
Unclear. Not sure what's happening.
But yeah, and we probably have built a couple of those ourselves.
Probably even worse ones.
But yeah, so, you know, we've seen that.
And it's definitely those are some of the problems of spreadsheets
that we kind of initially we were like, hmm, maybe these are some things
that we can try to help solve.
Yeah, absolutely.
And, you know, Aaron, as you would go from business school
back to the computer science side, I guess specifically to the business school,
Did your business peers look at you like,
"Oh, these are the guys that have the power
to make the thing happen.
They can help us build the thing
that we can't quite automate or can't quite pull off."
- I think in some ways, it was like trying to work
in a group in an Excel spreadsheet
is a miserable experience.
I hope you haven't had to do it,
but it's like you upload, you have a Google Drive,
and then you end up uploading new versions
to the Google Drive, and then it's usually a Google Drive
paired with a text message group chat.
And it's like, I just finished this sheet.
Why don't you go up and--
- Download it again or something.
- Yeah, exactly.
Make sure you're not doing it the same time I'm doing it.
And I think that, I don't think Nate and I
maybe solved those collaboration problems
while we were at Penn.
But I think it was those experiences
and our thinking we've had of our programming
as a superpower made us want to start doing this.
I don't know if it was always recognized
by everybody else though.
I mean, I think the big thing was maybe we weren't the best
at attending class.
So it was hard to be a good group member in the first place,
but one day we'll be up to it.
- Yeah, group work was always hard for me as well.
Jake, how about you?
How'd you get into this whole project here?
- Well, mostly by bloodline.
I'm Aaron's twin brother.
So sort of like some sort of covenant
I think comes through that.
But no, we started working really
in this like Excel collaboration space.
My background, I worked at a software company
during college, sort of on the project management side
of some data science projects.
So I had not quite the business side of it yet,
but at least a little more one step removed
from like the coding product side of it.
And yeah, we started working on these collaboration issues
and we built a few other products before
it had some modicums of success there,
but really took a step back at one point.
We're looking at like,
what are the biggest problems with spreadsheets?
It's the speed, it's the inability
to hold onto large data sizes,
and it's the lack of repeatability.
This allows you to do repeatable processes
in an efficient way.
And so the place we found that does all those really well
is some sort of bearing the lead is Python.
So the idea was to stick a spreadsheet interface
on top of Python.
And that was sort of like a sentence we had written down.
We're like, okay, now we need to backtrack
and realize like, what does that mean?
How do we do that?
How do we implement that?
And opened a few thousand cans of worms in doing so.
- Yeah, I'm sure, but it's a super neat idea.
There's a lot of things that you can automate with Python,
but with what you guys built,
we'll get to it in a little bit,
but what you all's built lets you interact
in this spreadsheet way,
and then it writes the Python code.
It doesn't just sort of allow you to make changes,
and then you gotta stay in your tool, right?
You use the tool to write code
that otherwise might be a little bit of a stretch for you.
Yeah, I think I can talk more high level, they can talk about exactly why and how we did that. But
like a lot of just from the business side, like a lot of other tools will try and extract Python
away. And so we'll give you will allow you to do the types of workflows that you would do in Python,
but in a GUI in a visual environment, we're much more tethered to the Python or try to be more
tethered to the Python and the notebook, it's really important to us that you're staying in
your Python environment. And you're not at any now you're not at a disadvantage at all, because
because you don't have the code.
The code is right there, it's being generated in real time.
And that's important for yourself,
if you're learning Python, if you're trying to use the code,
or if it's a communication layer.
You want that code because you want to send that
to a developer who's working in Python as well.
- Right, yeah, it probably allows you to bring
more people into the actual project than before, for sure.
- Totally, yeah, you're much less silent
by being in the environment.
- Yeah, absolutely.
I think that kind of mentality of when you're building tools for beginners or people that
don't know maybe the professional software, make it really point and click and hide a
lot of the complexity.
I think that's something that we've experienced with tools that we've used.
For example, we use Stripe and Stripe creates a bunch of dashboards for you.
But the problem is we have no idea what those dashboards...
What is the nitty gritty details of how those numbers are calculated?
And so we have all these metrics, and we have really poor understanding of what is this
actually telling us.
And so I think something interesting that we definitely try to do is we give you people
that are maybe less familiar with writing the syntax yourself the ability to, as you
said, point and click and use the spreadsheet environment and then generate the code.
And then if you ever have questions about, oh, what is this pivot table that I created?
What does it really mean?
Then you can look at the generated code and see exactly what's going on.
And I think that kind of like understanding where users need help and where users want
the as professional as possible, you know, nitty gritty details is a stratification that
we've thought about and I think have a somewhat unique approach to when it comes to these
like no code, low code tools.
Yeah, absolutely.
So I kind of want to set the stage by talking about some of the different things people
are doing with notebooks because notebooks have really taken over in the data science
space for good reason, I think.
You know, we had iPython notebooks and we had Jupyter and we had JupyterLab,
which is doing a little bit more than just Jupyter and people really love them.
I think.
And while JupyterLab is great, I think there's even, there's, there's a bunch
of creative things going on, trying to extend it and use it in different ways.
And I feel like Mido falls in there.
So I wanted to throw out a couple and just see if you all have heard of these.
and if so, get your thoughts on them.
One of them is this thing called JUT, J-U-T,
JUT maybe, something like that.
And what it allows you to do is it allows you
to actually view notebooks in the browser.
So have you guys, or not the browser, the terminal,
have you guys seen this?
- I haven't seen it, but I do have a lot of sympathy
for the unknown pronunciation of JUT or JUT
because we get MITO and METO a lot.
So my heart goes out to the two developers.
- Yeah, I'm sure I'm messing it up, but yeah.
Yeah, so here's a way to say like,
well, these notebooks are so popular.
Let's see if we can show them in the terminal.
Like if I'm SSH into a remote machine
and it has, you know, IPY and B files
and I just wanna see them, how do I look at them?
So you just say, JUT, I'm gonna go with JUT.
You just say JUT and then the file name
and then boom, it shows it right there using rich, I think.
What do you guys think of this?
- Super cool.
Yeah, I think that this is,
and I'm sure this comment will expand out
as we see more of these,
but I think it really demonstrates something
that we've really observed,
which is that notebooks are not like,
they're just like Excel in many ways.
They're not a tool that's used by one person
for one specific thing.
We use a tool called Mixpanel, for example,
and it helps us track some metrics, for example.
It's a product analytics tool.
- I've always used it before, yeah.
It gives you an insane amount of analytics
of where did these people come from,
how did they find my product and stuff like that.
- Exactly, and you can kind of imagine though,
it's really in some ways,
it's just for product analytics, right, in some ways.
And the really interesting thing about a lot of our users
is that one thing, as we're trying to learn about our users
and work with them to improve the tool,
one thing we've really realized
is there's people from all over the place.
And they're interested in notebooks
for 472 different reasons.
And so some people using notebooks are people who've never written any Python code before
in their life.
Some people have two weeks under of experience and some people are 75 year old developers
who only use the terminal.
And if you show them anything else, they'll try and fight you.
Right.
So it's, you know, it's really, I think this demonstrates that there's really an appetite
for a wide range of kind of ways of consuming these things and presenting these things and
editing these things on these notebooks specifically.
Yeah.
That's a great, yeah.
Great analysis.
I totally agree.
another cool thing about tools like this, or tools like this
more generally, is that I think what they sort of have to do
from a product perspective is condense down what are the
really powerful things about notebooks, because they're
taking a notebook and bringing it out of a notebook
environment. And I think kind of what we're trying to do with a
spreadsheet is like, what are the values of a spreadsheet? How
can we bring a spreadsheet into other environments? So I think
a tool like Jude is, is trying to do that. I think it's a
it's an interesting way to think about product. It's like sort of
like, what is the essence? What is it? What are the essential
parts of a notebook? What are the essential parts of a
spreadsheet, how do we translate those and bring that value to
other environments? So I always I'm interested in tools like
that.
Yeah, for sure. This is an interesting one. Another one is
they just came out with JupyterLab desktop version. And
I suspect that you guys could even integrate with the
JupyterLab desktop app, right?
I hope so. Most likely, yes, the answer is probably yes. But
you know, I'll be honest with you, like, candidly, if I spend
one more minute on installation problems, I might, you know,
chop my arms off or something. I don't know. But it's really, I
mean, I'm sure I don't have to preach to you. I'm sure you've
heard this a million times. But the Python installation
ecosystem environment issues is a, it's a massive blocker. I
knew it was a massive blocker from like an individual level.
Oh, I bet if you're trying to reach people who are going
through it, like I would just want to use Excel and like have
a little bit of code. Yeah. Conda virtual environments, pip
versions of Python. Yeah, you probably get a couple of questions about that every now and then.
Yeah, just a few. Yeah, exactly. But yeah, no, I think that this is a really cool example of,
I guess, you know, the Jupyter devs realizing that distribution is one of the primary problems here.
And certainly with us, it's like the primary bottleneck in users trying our product is not
they can't figure out how to use it. It's that they can't even get the thing installed in the
in the first place.
And, you know, making that as easy as possible.
I'm sure there's still work to do here,
but really hats off to them
and definitely something that we're interested in
working with in the future.
If we don't already,
there's probably some hack to do it.
- No, I have not done anything in earnest
with JupyterLab desktop,
but I have installed it and run it.
And I think it comes pre-assembled with Python and Conda.
You don't have to have, it basically comes all set.
And then it just hosts JupyterLab locally
inside of an electron app.
So it might even be better for you guys.
I'm not totally sure, but if you can make it work at all,
I bet it's better.
- I think what Nate is talking about is,
it's a trade-off that any tool or product building
as an extension to Python is gonna face,
especially if it's one that's trying to make
parts of data science more accessible to a newer audience.
If you're building it in the Jupyter environment,
there's a lot of freebies you get.
There's a lot of great nuggets,
valuable things for the user you get,
but installation can be such a nightmare
that you might be casting away a certain part,
top of the funnel, just by doing it.
- One of the benefits, I guess,
that you all will receive is people can go Google
for help setting up notebooks
and getting the notebook started and all that,
and you don't have to be part of that, right?
Like there's a whole ecosystem of people running notebooks,
people writing articles about using notebooks for beginners.
And so you can just sort of level up on top of that
and say, once you go through all
what they show you over here, here's how you go, right?
I mean, obviously you wanna help people succeed
'cause if they can't get Jupyter going,
they can't use Mido.
- Yeah, I was creating documentation
for getting set up with Mido
and I went to the JupyterLab documentation
and for things like creating a new sheet,
I just grabbed the JupyterLab YouTube video
and put it in our documentation.
- Yeah, that's one of the things I like
about your documentation and your site
is it's sprinkled with screencast-like little examples
of how to do stuff or how to demonstrate stuff.
And I think more places should do that, right?
There's so many places or so many projects
that I just don't understand.
It'll be a UI framework
and there won't be a single picture of anything.
Like what, it's about picture.
The whole purpose is pictures.
Give us a picture at least,
it's like a gallery or something.
And similarly with how do you use things and just,
yeah, hats off to you guys for putting those in there
'cause I think it makes a big difference.
- Yeah, one of the reasons I think we've done that
and had some good videos is just,
in terms of just growing the tool,
we've partnered with a lot of people
in the YouTube data science community,
and they're all really good at making demos.
I think we've learned a lot from them,
people like the data professor,
Krish Nayak, two we work with a lot.
But they've gone to sort of, I think,
I think at least myself learned a lot
from how to present a tool in a video,
and that's obviously really valuable for documentation.
- Yeah, I prefer to just fire up a two or three minute video
and watch it instead of reading through
and see what I really got to pay attention to.
Yeah, for sure.
- Yeah, definitely.
- All right, cool.
So JupyterLab Desktop is one of these
sort of interesting things.
Another one is JupyterLite,
which is Jupyter written in WebAssembly
that runs just in the front end of the browser.
You guys check this thing out?
- No, but this sounds amazing.
I mean, we saw,
I don't know if I saw the WebAssembly version,
but I saw a Python compiled to JS version of this era.
But I mean, it would be very cool
if everything could happen in the browser,
because I feel like installation problems would evaporate,
which is the goal.
It's the goal at the end of the day.
So this is super interesting.
We'll definitely check this out.
- Yeah, this might also be relevant to you guys,
'cause it's basically Jupyter running,
and then they run in-browser WebAssembly language kernels.
So a limited set of CPython in WebAssembly in the browser,
and probably also Julia and R and all those things.
- Right, so the benefit here, sorry, go for it.
I was gonna actually ask that question on behalf of the maybe partially non-technical
audience.
What is the benefit here?
I can take a shot, yeah.
So how I would describe this is that, so normally the way JupyterLab works is that it's a client-server
model, right?
So your client is effectively the thing that you as a user interact with.
You have a notebook that you see, you write code in the notebook, you press shift-enter
to run a notebook cell.
What actually happens when you press shift-enter is that code gets sent to the server.
The server in this case is a Python kernel,
and the Python kernel actually runs that code
and then sends you back the results.
So there's what you see on your web browser,
and then there's a server running
usually on your command line or something,
and you send code to it,
it executes the code and sends you the results.
The benefit of this thing
is that you can get rid of that backend.
So there's no more installation,
and instead you only need this kind of notebook
that lives on the front end.
WebAssembly is a tool that allows us
to run the code on the front end.
And so instead of taking code,
sending it to the backend and getting it back,
we can do that all in one location.
- Right, and the challenges you've already
been talking about are the challenge
of setting up that backend to get Python
to run on your machine with the environments
and the dependencies, and this would,
theoretically, in principle, at least,
avoid all that, it's just load it up and it goes.
- Yeah, it's super cool.
Now we'll definitely look into it,
'cause this is a, I mean, this is an area
of continual research for us,
is how to improve our installation process.
- Yeah, very cool.
All right, what else have I pulled up here?
A paper mill.
So a paper mill lets you treat notebooks
like functions that you can execute a notebook
and then get a value out for all sorts of things.
I'm not, I think this area,
this is probably the least relevant to you guys,
the things that I pulled up here,
'cause it's exactly about making it not interactive
and kind of skipping that,
but just another interesting thing that people are doing
to kind of add more or do more with these notebooks.
- Yeah, it seems super cool.
Oh, are we gonna stop this one?
- No, I was just gonna say,
I've seen people, we've seen people who have notebooks
where they like call functions in other notebooks
and all of that syntax, you know,
the Panda syntax is confusing,
but then like linking notebooks and all of that
is confusing as well.
So I think it's all interesting to see, you know,
I think just like spreadsheets
have so many different use cases,
and I think Nate touched on this earlier,
notebooks have an incredibly large number
of different use cases with people
from like top level data scientists
to people just getting started.
So the tooling ecosystem that's being created
and already exist is really quite diverse
and really powerful.
- Absolutely.
All right, I think I've got one more for you here.
This might be the one that you heard of Nate
called Notebook.js.
No, this one renders, parses them
and then renders it down to HTML,
which is, I guess I don't have one to open,
but that's all right.
So yeah, that's pretty neat
that it'll basically allow you to turn notebooks
into HTML.
- And I think just to kind of draw a categorization model
over what we've kind of seen before,
I think there's a couple areas of focus.
And these are things that we focus on internally.
And I think themes that will come up
throughout the rest of the conversation.
There's things that we'll call, let's say presentation.
Right, and presentation is this looking at it,
looking at the outputs here in the terminal
or looking at the outputs easily on a webpage
without running a server, right?
And presentation is something that we encounter.
How do we present data?
how do we present conclusions from analysis, et cetera.
Then there's another thing,
which I think this paper mill thing that we looked at last
is super relevant on,
which is this idea of repeatability, right?
As anyone who's worked in notebooks knows,
there are really great areas for being a scratch pad.
It can get pretty confusing sometimes
when you've got like all these cells flying around,
you're executing things out of order.
- Yeah, and that's the thing, you know,
we have sort of solved the Excel,
this cell refers to that cell and then,
But you have this human aspect of notebooks, right?
I can go, I want to try this, try this, try this,
go back and change this and then run this.
And the stuff below it, you can run them in different orders
and even change them and then have some of the invisible
changes stuck in another unrun cell.
- The amount of times that even,
I mean, Aaron and I spend all day in notebooks
and the amount of times where I'll go up to Aaron
and be like, Aaron, dude, look at this.
This code makes no sense.
What is this bug?
I don't understand it.
And Aaron's like, you fool.
you've been one, three, four, not one, two, three.
What were you thinking?
You know, like just the amount of times
that even we as people who use notebooks
all day encounter that is really, you know, it's dramatic.
And so I think that it's, you know,
that area of reproducibility and repeatability
is something that we spend a lot of time thinking about,
mostly because a lot of our users
are really interested in it
and it's problems that they struggle with.
And it's something I think we'll definitely get into,
you know, as we kind of get into, you know,
what we actually ended up building.
- Yeah, awesome.
So speaking of get into it, let's talk about Mido.
So I think Mido lives in this realm of these interesting ways
to do more with notebooks.
And as we've already hinted at, you basically
take an Excel user interface, stick it into a notebook,
and then allow people to interact
with the data within the notebook in an Excel-style way,
right?
What's your elevator pitch?
Oh, I can go over there.
LLVidge essentially it's a spreadsheet interface for Python.
So everything you do in the spreadsheet
is gonna generate the equivalent code for you
in the code cell below.
If you're watching the video right now,
you're seeing a little demo happen.
But we have features for exploratory data analysis.
We have features for data wrangling, data munging.
I've heard lots of different words for that type of process.
So just sending them there.
And then graphing as well.
And also we have the ability to save and replay analysis
of like a macro. And in terms of users, you know, we have people who are newer to Python using it to
sort of introduce themselves to the Python world. They're learning as they go. But the nice thing is
that they're not held back by the syntax at any point. So you're not Googling syntax, you're not
going to Stack Overflow, you're in your notebook the entire time, sort of staying in a state of
flow. And then we also have more advanced Python users and people intermediate in the middle,
using it just to get their analysis done more quickly. It's really fast to do something visually,
especially like the code for graphing or pivot tables
or merging, take a lot of time to type it out
and get the syntax right.
So in our tool, you just do it in an Excel interface
that you're used to and it spits out the correct code for you.
- Yeah, it's cool.
People definitely need to see the little video.
So if you haven't checked it out,
obviously I'll put a couple of videos in the show notes,
but yeah, that's the idea is you come in
and you just basically inside the notebook
as just part of the cell,
you might be familiar with having an interactive widget
for like some kind of graph, right?
Where it's got like some sliders and stuff.
It's like that, but it's Excel-ish.
Right?
- Yeah, exactly.
- Was this your first idea or what did you,
where did this whole idea start?
- So we started, all right, go ahead if you want.
We've worked on a lot of different
like spreadsheet related tools.
We over, I guess, a year and a half ago or two years, a long time ago at this point,
we started building a GitHub for Excel. And we were building essentially,
difference detection, allowing you to merge, going back to those original problems that we
talked about that we experienced at school. So we were building this GitHub for Excel platform.
we were primarily talking to investment bankers and people in private equity and these like really
Excel power users. And we, you know, we built the tool, we've interacted with a lot of them
eventually realized that wasn't maybe the most helpful or space that we could be working in and
ended up finding our way to this where it was more Python based Jupyter notebooks, and just making
them more accessible. And as Jake said, you know, helping people across the spectrum from beginners
to more advanced data analysts
to get their analysis done faster.
- Sure.
I think there's two angles here.
One is just, you could be really fast, right?
You could say, okay, I wanna do,
I see the data, I wanna sort by this.
Now I want to drop these three columns
and then I want to, you know,
compute a, do a computed column of sort of thing
or maybe join two pieces of data,
like two data frames
and create like a larger one out of that and so on.
You could be really quick with that.
I think maybe even more important to that is helping people who are just stepping into the data science side of the world, right? They've
They've been working in some other tools or no tools whatsoever really and then they just they hear
Oh, I should go do Python and I should do notebooks and then they're confronted with pandas
Which pandas is great and it's not that hard to use but there's a zillion things you can do with pandas and it's not super
discoverable
You know
- Totally. - What it is you should choose.
And also the notebooks don't really help
as much as they could, I think,
in presenting the features of an API, right?
Like if I'm working in PyCharm or VS Code and I say dot,
like boom, there's a bunch of descriptions.
And if I get the mouse near it,
it'll give me like examples and documentation.
And here it just lets you type unless you hit, you know,
dot tab and you explicitly ask for it.
And a lot of people don't, I suspect,
if they're coming from economics,
they don't know that oh, like Tab has this magic
to show me what I can do and stuff like that, right?
- Totally, and I think, oh, there, go ahead, sorry.
No, I was gonna say, yeah, and I think that those people
making the transition to the notebook environment
are doing so at a, along a spectrum of willingness as well.
Some people are doing it because they're really excited
about up-leveling their skills, learning Python,
making their analysis faster, and then some people
are doing it because upper-level management wants me to do that.
And I think those people are really grateful for having
a tool that will help them meet the workflow requirements
that they're working in, but not necessarily having to--
I'm sure you've read, at some point, the Pandas
documentation.
And it's one of those that has lots of great examples,
in fairness.
But no pictures.
It's not the most intuitive.
>>Victor: Probably not a lot of tutorial videos in there.
>>Chance: Yeah.
So I would add a sort of a third category to what Aaron was saying, which is like, it's
people not forced by management, but it's not sort of out of their own interest in Python.
It's more so they're just sort of forced to based on what they're trying to accomplish.
If they have a certain data set of a certain size, you simply can't do it in Excel or Google
Sheets.
So I need a medium that's going to allow me to facilitate data analysis on this scale.
And they can be really frustrating if you're thrown into pandas to do that.
And you have to spend all your time, especially doing simple things that you're so used to
to doing in Excel, like adding columns, doing pivot tables,
whatever it is, using formulas.
If now you're spending 90% of your time
going through syntax and making sure that you're typing out
and capitalizing the right letters in a line of code,
that can be really frustrating.
So our tool is really trying to allow you to stay focused
on the actual analysis the entire time.
- Right.
And many people are Excel literate, right?
And so it kind of levers that a little bit.
- Yeah.
And then for people who aren't even coming from Excel,
that are just data scientists, they're,
I don't know what the word is,
not Excel literate, but they're sort of like
visual literate, that's a horrible phrase.
But what it means essentially is that
they understand how to do this visually.
They understand, okay, these are the things I need to do
and here are the buttons to do it,
here are the functions I can use.
So it's still a really valuable environment
for everyone, Excel or Python otherwise.
- Nice.
So question from the audience out there,
Spohn says, "Hello, what are the limitations of Mido?"
- That's a great question.
I think the honest answer is that Mido is certainly a work in progress,
and there's a large portion of Pandas functionality that we don't currently support.
So kind of, I think a helpful context here is how we're actually developing this tool.
So Mido is very much, I would say, a collaboration with our users.
And what that practically means is that join our Discord, there's a feature request channel,
and anyone has the ability to show up and essentially say, "Hey, this is missing from my workflow."
and we'll say, "Oh, that's on our roadmap,"
or, "Oh, that wasn't on our roadmap, we'll add that,"
or help us engage with your workflow
and understand where that's coming from.
But essentially what's happening is,
over the past six to eight to nine months or so,
we've been working really heavily with our users
to kind of build out the core pieces
of Pandas functionality that most of our users
work with one by one, and kind of investing
their workflows back into the tool.
- Yeah, which way do you take it?
Do you go and say, "These are the things
"people need to do in Pandas.
"How do we surface that in our interface?"
Or do you say, these are the Excel type things
people are happy with, how do I make that happen?
And Panda is like, which direction
do you find yourself going?
- It's a really great question.
And Aaron, you can definitely speak to this more
because this is kind of part of our process internally
that's been evolving, but really kind of what we try
and do at this point is we try and work very heavily
with our users to understand, you know,
at the highest of levels,
what are they trying to accomplish, right?
Someone really isn't usually trying to make a pivot table.
Usually what they're trying to do is conclude,
should I tell a salesperson to do X or Y, right?
And that level of decision--
- What state are we spending, getting the most sales in?
And all I have is zip codes or something like that, right?
- Exactly, exactly, right?
There are really a lot of people that we work with
and this isn't the only thing,
but one of the things, for example,
is they're operating the level of,
I'm looking to predict this feature
or understand what affects this piece of my data.
And so what we do is we kind of work with them
to understand their workflow.
And then we use that to internally figure out
What features drive this?
What does Panda support?
And how can we provide an interface on that
that really lets people, you know,
get this done as quickly as possible
in a way that gives them as much flexibility
at the end of the day, if they need to take this from Mido
and go run with the code somewhere else.
Yeah.
And Aaron, feel free to hop in.
- Go for it, Jake.
- I was, no, Aaron, I was gonna say,
I feel like in the beginning,
how to come out when they were saying,
we were very focused on,
like when we first launched, we were very focused on,
let's put Excel into Python.
and it was like more about the Excel functionality.
But I think over time, we've come to think more about,
the question is more, what is the best visual interface
for Python for data science?
And it's less so, and so some of those things
are from Excel, some of those things are our own creations.
It's still a spreadsheet interface, but it's not,
the goal is certainly not to take Microsoft Excel
and give you all of that in Python.
- Interesting, yeah, cool.
All right, I think maybe a good way to understand this,
how this workflow works and get a peek
inside of the features is over here somewhere,
I think in the documentation side of things,
you've got, yeah, right at the beginning here,
this quick tutorial here, you've got this sort of,
I don't know, I'm not bouncing around,
I'm not finding quite where it was to tell you,
but there's this example where you go
and load up a couple of CSV files
and then like join them to create a pivot table
and stuff like that.
Maybe give us a talk through
what working with that data flow kind of looks like.
You know, I talked about this idea
of like turning zip codes into states
and that kind of stuff.
What does working with Mito feel like?
Give us a sense.
Whoever wants to take that one.
- I can talk a little about that.
So I think working with Mito feels hopefully very fast
and very intuitive, I think are two of the things.
and maybe robust, or maybe like the three kind of things
we strive for.
I think in terms of workflows that we see people doing,
a lot of people kind of fit this feature creator and automator
use case that we think about.
So it's people that have some business sort of question,
like, where are all my sales coming from when
I just have these zip codes?
And they're probably trying to do that in Python
because they've been doing it in Excel over and over again
each month.
And they're looking for a more robust and more automatic way of doing that.
So I think a lot of a lot of how a lot of the ways that we see these workflows play out is people either have a CSV file or they have like a snowflake connection to get some data. And then they start by doing you know, some simple EDA and trying to get a better sense of what what their data actually looks like.
Right. Without Mido, it might be something like df.head, or df.sample, and just like kind of get a visual look of a grid of data, right?
Exactly. Or even some people are, they want the more visual interface. So they're downloading it to Excel initially, and doing some
manipulations or something like that there. But then that workflow is very, you know, separate from their more automatic script that
they're creating, and then they have to kind of reconcile any
changes that they've made back into the Python workflow. But
yeah, so Mido has a bunch of features. There's some here,
you know, if you scroll down in the documentation on this left
hand side, you might see some stuff that might be helpful. So
there's things like summary stats, right there, which will
show you like a graph, a distribution of the data in each
column, a lot of those dot describe functions and has some
really intuitive filtering.
So things like filter by value,
so you can see all the unique values in your column,
and then you can toggle them in and out of your dataset,
or you can add more customized filters,
whichever you would like.
But then once you move past this kind of like
initial data cleaning,
some people do write spreadsheet formulas.
So we have a bunch of Excel's most popular formulas.
Things like date manipulation and date parsing.
Yeah, here's a bunch of, here's a few of them.
Once you kind of get a sense of what your data looks like,
you can do some of these transformations,
and then ultimately you'll end up with the script
that you can use to run over and over again,
and never have to go back into the Excel world
to fight through the manual process again.
- Yeah, so to get data into this spreadsheet-like front end,
that is Mino, you basically just have to have a data frame.
If you have a data frame, boom.
And there's a ton of flexibility for doing that, right?
You could load a file, you could get it from the internet.
You could do even read HTML off of a URL
and then go grab a table and then there's your data frame.
Work with that, right?
There are simplifications, I guess.
Like when you're in Mito,
you can hit like file load equivalent, right?
And browse to the files and then it'll write the pandas code
say like pd.read_csv to whatever you selected, right?
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And I think that this, I mean, this,
one of the things I think would be really interesting
to talk with you about is generally in your kind of survey
of the Python ecosystem, it's interesting because,
I mean, Python is code, right?
And so in some ways we're on this boundary,
this flexible border between pure code
and low-code, no-code tool.
And there's been 100 million low-code, no-code tools
that have existed over the past 25, 30 years, whatever.
And some of them are around and some of them aren't.
And really the question for us that we kind of ask ourselves is,
what unique do we bring to the table here?
And as a local tool, how do we differentiate ourselves?
And it's that exact idea that you can also just pass a data frame.
We're not necessarily interested in,
we don't want to stop you from writing Python code.
We want to enable you to write Python code as easily as you possibly can.
And really, that's how we see ourselves manning that spectrum.
I think it's a really good place to be because
my hesitation with all these low-code, no-code tools
is they usually, one, lock you into their thing,
which is often a SaaS thing, right?
So you're locked into having your data there
and continuing to subscribe to a thing,
which, you know, don't get me started on subscribing to so many things.
I was suggested that I subscribe to my internet speed checker app.
Not me, but like...
Once an hour, you need to check, right?
Yearly, I could subscribe to it.
If I pay yearly for my speed checker,
what are you doing?
Too many things that are subscribed to. Anyway,
not that subscriptions don't make sense for a lot of tools.
But what I like about this is,
like you said,
you bring the data from wherever
and you could do this out of a Postgres database
and you build up a data frame
and then you could throw into this visual place
that speeds you up.
And then what comes out the other end are more data frames.
So you could even do multiple,
maybe tell me this is true, it seems like you could,
you could do some regular Python code,
some Mido that generates
a really interesting transformation,
some more Python code,
and then maybe another Mido block
that takes another bit of output
and then brings in more data, does other stuff.
You can kind of mix and match throughout these,
throughout the notebook.
- Yeah, exactly.
And actually, the other day we went on GitHub
and we searched Mido sheet to see how people are using it.
and you see people using it in that exact way
where they're importing data,
they then generate some code using Mido,
and then they'll, you know,
one of the things, admittedly,
that the tool is maybe not the best at right now
is graphing.
We have, you know, we support creating basic graphs,
but not changing the colors, changing the titles,
all of that.
So one thing that we see--
- What UI frameworks do you support?
Matplotlib, Plotly, Autigr? - We use Plotly.
- Okay.
- Yeah, so we generate Plotly code,
which has great documentation.
You can go in there, we give you a link,
and you can go in and make your edits.
But this is one of those places where generating Python code,
and in this case, Plotly code,
is super helpful for everybody involved.
For us, it's helpful because we didn't have to
recreate the Plotly library, which is massive.
But for everybody else, it's also helpful
because we didn't recreate the Plotly library,
you are able to use the entire Plotly ecosystem,
and you're not locked in at all.
So for something like Alteryx,
where you can use their graphing features
and if they don't have the graphs that you wanna create,
then you're kind of out of luck
and you're 'cause you're locked in
and there's not really an easy customizability path.
But you own your Python code that Mido generates.
So it's up to you to do whatever you want.
- Yeah, I suspect you guys don't recommend this,
but you technically could delete out in a lot of cases,
the Mido bits after you generate your Python code
and keep going like, okay, this was really helpful,
but we actually don't need this anymore.
There are cases where some of the Excel-like functions
really come from you guys, right?
But a lot of it is what is writing as pandas
and NumPy and Plotly code, right?
Just speaking to the lock-in or not the lock-in
- Yeah. - at a story, right?
- Yeah, I think we definitely support that.
In Mido, actually, we have a button clear.
Data analysis is all about very iterative,
building your understanding of what is useful
and where you want to go.
So one of the actually the most commonly done things
in the tool is actually clearing all of the edits
that you've made to your analysis
and getting rid of Mito now that you have that understanding
and wanting to take it in another direction.
I think we're a huge supporter-- well,
we're big supporters in our own development process
of cleaning your workspace.
Nate is proud of how clean our code is.
And if Mido isn't helpful for you right now,
definitely get rid of it so you have an easy notebook
to clean up and debug.
- Yeah, I think that's a big contrast
going to some other no-code SaaS system.
There is no, I don't wanna use this exactly anymore,
just let me carry on with my analysis.
There's none of that in most of these tools.
And with yours, I think it's there to support you
and I can see it being incredibly valuable,
but at the same time, it's not the essence
of what you're doing.
It's the UI on top of Python, as Jake likes to say.
- Yeah, I was just gonna say to the point
of deleting out the Mito sheets,
we have a society of secret Mito users
who are trying to convince their bosses
that they're really good at Python to get a pay raise.
So we support that workflow very, very well.
- Exactly.
So what are the challenges that you can have
when you have a machine write code
is that it writes bad code
that's hard to understand.
And Nate, it sounds like you might have had some input
on this, that when you interact with Mido,
you do certain operations.
Like I do a filter, I create a pivot table,
or I filter out certain things.
It'll actually write step one, you did this,
step two, you did that.
And it writes what looks like pretty well-formatted
Python code with little bits of documentation,
like pivot the table, reset the column name and indexes,
and stuff like, it'll even comment your code
that it writes.
You want to speak to that a little?
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, this is a really interesting area that we've put a bunch of research time in, if you can call it that.
So there's a couple things that I want to, I think, highlight here, and I'd love to also hear your thoughts on as well.
So you're totally right.
Machines writing code, it's all the rage these days in some ways with these fancy, you know, machine learning systems
where you can write a little prompt and everything will get written for you.
Mito takes a little bit of a different approach where exactly as you say, when you, for example, add a filter,
It'll generate the line of code that corresponds to that filter.
Of course, immediately, the question becomes,
this is not exactly how I want the code to be.
I didn't mean to do that.
I meant to do something else.
And so really, the way we think about it is giving the user that code in the cleanest way
that we possibly can.
So just as an example of this, if the user adds a column and then immediately after renames
that column, a feature that we're actually releasing this week is that is going to get
collapsed into just the adding of the column with the new name, right?
>> Nice, yeah.
>> That's ultimately what the user was intending to do.
There's other more fancy things that you can do.
You can start getting into kind of code optimization,
where it's like you made a pivot table,
then you overwrote the pivot table.
And those are all things that we're definitely interested in
and kind of are on the roadmap for improving.
But generally, you're totally right.
If we want users to be able to learn from this code,
to be able to use this code,
we need to generate clean semantic Python
that really works in the wild
and is actually editable by the users.
Otherwise, it's just a blob,
a mass that you can't actually interact with.
- Yeah. - Yeah.
- Yeah, well, you get it,
but at least from the examples I've seen,
I would be happy to take that
and then start writing directly on that.
Even though you don't see it on the screen,
it's like right above,
I scrolled it right a little bit off there,
but it says, don't edit this section, this is Mido code.
I guess that's if you still wanna be able to use Mido on it.
- No, exactly. - Don't mess it up, right?
- That's a feature we're working on this week
is improving that communication.
You can take Mido code and edit it
and change it however you want.
The only problem is might have trouble reinterpreting that
if you try and then later replay an analysis.
But that's also a work in progress.
And ideally, the kind of perfect version
of what we envision long-term,
and maybe we'll get there, maybe this is impossible,
but one really cool thing that we're kind of thinking about
is edit a spreadsheet to generate Python,
edit Python to generate a spreadsheet.
- Yeah, I was thinking it could be bidirectional.
That'd be fantastic, right?
- Yeah, really cool.
So really it's this world
where you're really fluidly writing code
and editing a spreadsheet.
And if something's easier in code, go write the code.
If something's easier in the spreadsheet,
go write the spreadsheet.
And that's definitely a vision that we've seen ourselves
kind of realizing over time currently
and something that, as you mentioned,
you can go Mido, Python, Mido, Python,
and do that currently.
But making that easier for our users
to really use the code in a dynamic and real way,
as you would any other Python code that you write,
is definitely something that we're actively investing in
right now and really trying to improve.
- Nice.
Yeah, I like the idea of being able to
have it do some optimizations rather than create a variable
and then overwrite the variable with some other thing,
you know, just do it all at once.
I'm sure there's a ton of stuff in Pandas
that could be done better
rather than like a really naive, straightforward,
like multi-step stage, right?
- Yeah, and the other thing I will say
is the one benefit actually to generating this code
is that, and not to insult anyone
because I'm the biggest offender of this,
but most data science scripts you see in the wild
are not the pinnacle of clean, well-kept code.
It's usually out-of-order notebooks where,
because it's such a dynamic process,
it's just very hard in practice
to keep these things well-organized.
And so actually what we can do in practice
is generate some documentation for what's happening
and help users save and manage these scripts
in a more linear and organized way, et cetera,
and help users kind of adopt these best practices.
And that's sort of the stuff
that we've been exploring recently.
And Aaron was actually working on some of this today,
improving some of this code generation stuff.
but it's not the highest of bars to meet.
And we definitely think that we can, you know,
continue to improve and surpass that
and make sure that the code we're generating
is really great, great stuff.
Stuff you'd be happy to edit.
- One thing that while I'm looking at it,
let's just throw this out of here,
as a piece of feedback with very little actual experience.
So take it for what the grain of salt is.
You've got like step one, step two, step three.
It'd be cool if those were actually separate cells.
So like at the end of say step three,
I could do like a pivot table dot head or something
just to like sort of touch on it
and explore it a little bit.
along there.
Yeah, no, definitely.
And a similar thing that we've also certainly thought of
that multi-cell approach would enable is,
you know, changing the order of steps,
switching things around and saying,
oh, I actually want to filter first and then pivot
versus pivoting and then filtering.
Yeah, certainly on the roadmap,
but definitely something we want to do,
giving users more options on how they actually export this code
and what they do with it at the end.
Yeah, super neat.
We've got a question out here that kind of leads into
where I was going to go with this anyway,
I'm gonna switch the order so I don't cover your head, Jake.
Spawn also asked, does Mito support switching
or switching from or to or using Dask?
- Gotcha.
- Yeah.
- Not currently, no.
So the one really cool thing is because of the Mito,
the way Mito works internally,
which is something we can definitely get into
depending on if you think your audience
would be interested in it, what the appetite is.
but we really have the ability to switch out,
let's say, what the back ends is of Mido.
Kind of what code do we actually end up generating
is something that we can leave up in the air.
And really our interface can be a more general thing
than just Python code or just pandas and Python code.
- Yeah, especially for these frameworks
that are near compatible, API compatible with pandas, right?
- Yeah, exactly.
Like I think Dask is almost exactly.
And for most of the basic operations,
they've aligned on the pandas UI,
the pandas API just for how to kind of handle things.
And so it's definitely something that in the future,
we could support.
And if we have users who are working with huge datasets
and need Dask, then it's definitely something
we'd be interested in learning about.
- I think Dask is, Dask, when I first think of Dask,
I think large clusters, massively scaled out data,
but then at the same time, right over here,
I have my MacBook Pro Max, which has 10 cores on it.
And when I run Python code, I get 10% of that CPU, right?
And Dask will allow you to scale across your CPUs,
even on your local machine, right?
Or scale larger than your memory and stuff.
And so I feel like it's,
Dask, even for just making your local work go better,
is actually probably under realized or underutilized.
- That's super cool.
Yeah, no, it's interesting that the range of dataset sizes
that we actually see in practice,
It's very, I would say, at least from my observations,
and Aaron, Jake, feel free to hop in on this,
but it's like very bimodal in that there's a lot of people
hanging out with 100,000 rows,
and then there's some people that are like,
hey, I have 100 million records I'm looking to analyze.
And we're like, well, good luck on your 2012 MacBook,
you know what I got, it's gonna take a bit.
(laughing)
- Get a coffee.
- Chill out, go to sleep, wake up tomorrow,
hope it hasn't crashed, I think is the general strategy.
- So that does lead me towards my final two little areas
I want to speak about before we run out of time here.
Now, on one hand, this is just writing Python code.
So its performance and its limitations
are what effectively pandas can deal with, right?
On the other, it is showing that stuff
and allowing you to sort it visually.
So there might be some constraints
on like amount of data you can work with.
What's the data size story?
- It's a great question.
We have a release coming out within the next two weeks.
Generally, here's our motto.
We obviously, we're providing a visual interface.
There's gonna be a little bit of overhead,
but the way we like to think about what we do
is that it's a tiny little bit of flat overhead,
no matter how big your data is.
- Okay.
- And in practice--
- For example, you won't try to show
the entire 100 million rows in a grid,
or like you'll do some sort of virtual lazy load list
or something like that?
- Exactly, a lazy load list.
And we actually have a lazy load of the entire data set.
That's a feature coming out
within the next two weeks or so.
It's all written.
We just got to test it a bit better in the wild.
But yeah, effectively, we're a very thin wrapper
on top of Pandas functionality.
And in practice, what that means is anything you can do
in Pandas, you should be able to do in Mito
from a dataset size perspective.
It's something that was very important to us,
especially because a lot of our users are in Python
because of dataset size limitations in the first place,
as I think Jake mentioned.
- Yeah, yeah, that's a good point.
- This is something that we've spent a lot of time on.
we were previously using a G grid as our
like actual display unit.
And it just wasn't,
they didn't combination of probably us not
implementing it a hundred percent how they might implement it
and you know, them not optimizing for
these ginormous data sense, data sets.
They in particular just spent a huge amount of time
recreating the entire grid from scratch.
So we could have complete customizability over it
and show as much as much data as possible.
- Nice.
Sometimes you got to do that, right?
Like this control is amazing, but we've outgrown it
and bite the bullet and just do it right.
- Exactly.
- Yeah, now, interesting question from Samir out there.
Hey Samir, can I use Mido and VS Code?
And I'll sort of expand to that just a little bit.
Can I use it in some of these other tools
that are not exactly notebooks?
So we've got VS Code has its kind of own way
of presenting and showing notebooks.
We've got PyCharm and we've got Dataspel,
which is JetBrains new data science IDE thing.
What's the story with these environments?
- So unfortunately right now,
Mido only works in JupyterLab.
But this question is something that comes up all the time.
I think the places we hear the most interest
are at VS Code and Google Collab.
And we're definitely excited and really want to support
those environments as well.
And I think we've done a lot of work internally
on how we design Mito to make it extendable.
It's now-- we have a lot of this functionality
that we're trying to pack into the tool.
And then handling these new environments
is a decent amount of development work as well.
So it's all a prioritization game at this point.
But yeah, so short answer is we don't support them now.
but in the future we definitely will.
- Cool, all right.
Two other areas quickly I wanna touch on.
One, tell us a little bit about
how this is implemented internally.
I think it, I don't know how it's implemented,
but I'm guessing that it's somewhat
like a lot of Jupyter stuff.
Like I wanna do Jupyter things for Python,
but I gotta write them in JavaScript.
Is that the story here as well?
- You nailed it, you nailed it.
Actually, your earlier comment of,
imagine it's just like a slidey widget
that you can use in a graph in JupyterLab was spot on.
the IPy interactive widget or whatever.
- We are actually just a very fancy IPy interactive widget,
believe it or not.
- Okay.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's fantastic.
- So in practice, how that actually works
for your audience, if they're interested,
is there's kind of two pieces to your code base.
There's a JavaScript front end
and there's a Python back end.
The JavaScript front end is the sheet that you see.
It's the buttons that you click.
And what that actually does is it just,
it's a very thin wrapper that just then sends a message
to this MitoSheet Python package in the back and says,
"Hey, I just clicked this add column button.
"You should add a column, excuse me, to this data frame."
And then that Python processes that message
and then responds to the front end and says,
"Okay, great, display the new data frame
"and also write this code to the cell below."
And that's kind of the high level of what happens there.
It gets, as you can say, more complex than the nitty gritty.
We're in practice, we're a React code base.
We use TypeScript because we like strong typing.
And we kind of--
- You use type annotations on your Python side?
We are gradually adding them to our code base.
We don't currently type check, actually.
We mostly use them as IDE support to make things easier.
- That's the main thing I use them for as well,
because a lot of times the IDEs will show you the errors
if you make them anyway, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
No, you definitely, you get some support,
but Pandas, I'll say Pandas typing support,
obviously Pandas is the main library we interact with,
is not, it's not perfect in all cases.
It's a very complex library, so, you know, for sure.
But effectively, in those cases, things kind of break down
and the errors that you get are maybe sometimes false positives,
sometimes false negatives,
and you can shoot yourself in the foot sometimes.
Yeah, interesting. Okay, so it's a blend.
It's the JavaScript, React, TypeScript front end,
and then Python back end.
Yep, yeah, exactly.
And that question of that,
let's say that stratification and that architecture,
that's exactly what's going to have to evolve
as we kind of move into other places
like Google Colab, VS Code, et cetera.
They all have slightly different extension architectures.
And so architecting our code bases
So these things are separatable and reconfigurable and in the ways that other data science environments
expect is something that we've kind of been trying to do.
But you know, a plea to everyone who's developing data science IDEs, settle on one extension
environment please.
I know it's never going to happen, but it'd be really nice for us extension developers.
We'd love it for sure.
Right.
Or making an adapter.
Yeah.
If somebody created things that if you have a Jupyter UI and you want to put in Google
you just insert this thing and talk to it
and then magic happens.
- Yeah, shims when they work are great.
So if someone's done that, let us know,
please reach out and we'd really appreciate it.
- Yeah, yeah, super cool.
All right, let's see.
Another thing I do wanna make sure
that we touch on a little bit is up here at the top,
I see plans.
And so this is not for every possible use case
of free tool, right?
you have a free version and you have a higher order
paid version for Teams,
if I'm understanding that correctly, right?
>> So we have, Mito is a free community tool.
We have free users, 90 whatever percent of our users are free
for an end user, please download it.
You know, you can, you can pivot solve and it's free.
We work with some larger organizations
in sort of more bespoke manner doing custom development,
custom integration, and those are those payment happening
there sometimes with some of those larger enterprises
What we're building out now is sort of that middle piece
where we want to have sort of a plan for teams,
maybe with some better security,
some pre-development hours, things like that.
That business model is evolving,
but we'll probably be,
what we want is a SaaS model there
where you're paying 10 bucks a month or something.
But also-- - It does seem like
some kind of online system.
I mean, you go to Jupyter through a browser anyway,
some kind of system that's like really already configured
'cause you're helping people come into Python
who probably don't totally wanna pip install
and manage their path and activate virtual environments
and all those kinds of things, right?
- Yeah.
- That kind of like really help them there, right?
- Totally, and that's one of the things we do
when we work with some of these larger enterprises
is help them with the setup of their Drupal
to help environment, help them get the package they need,
help them get Mito installed, obviously.
But I was just gonna say to viewers,
we're definitely looking to partner
with more organizations or teams
if anyone wants to reach out and make my email
or something will be in like somewhere.
- Yeah, yeah, we'll put your contact information
- Sounds good, but yeah, we're definitely,
we're looking to work with teams right now
as we have a really good, a really strong user base.
- Yeah, cool, cool.
So, I'm glad that you guys have some kind of business model
because a lot of these things, they come
and then people kind of lose interest and then they go
and there's a real big difference of,
this is my job and my investment,
so I'm really gonna work on it
versus this is a thing I'm kind of excited about
for a few months, so.
It's cool you got a free plan for people to use,
that's awesome.
It's also cool that there's a path to support
to just make it better.
- Yeah, yeah, definitely.
We're here for the long haul.
- The other thing I'll add here is it's,
and I in no way mean this on a knock
on the like hundreds of amazing data science tools
that are out there, but, excuse me, sorry.
There's, I think like this level of polish
that we really feel a desire to reach with our tool.
It's like that kind of,
When you're delivering a tool to a paying customer,
there's often a different expectation
that comes from the paying customer.
And we do our very best to hold ourselves
to the highest standard possible,
but when someone who's paying you reaches out and says,
"Hey, this button doesn't look the way it should,"
that extra level of polish
really kind of kicks the tool over the edge,
and all of that feature development
ends up getting pushed back to the individual users.
And so really, the free users, I'll say,
and most of the people who use our tool.
And so really, we're trying to build the best tool
that we can here,
and making sure that we can do that sustainably long-term
and really invest in what we're doing
and build a team around it is something
that really is necessary if we're gonna deliver
on what we think we can and the promise here.
- Yeah. - Cool.
- Another nice thing about the paying users
is just that we get to work
in a much more close relationship with them.
So there's a lot, that's where we get to zone in
on specific use cases around financial services
or around bio-research.
So we've gotten to work on specific features
and specific workloads that we definitely wouldn't otherwise
that I think to Nate's point are gonna really benefit
everyone who uses the tool.
- Yeah, very cool.
I'm fascinated with the different ways people are working
and operating in open source space
or building on top of open source tools
to create businesses.
We've got the Anacondas, we've got the MongoDBs
and stuff out there.
So yeah, good luck to you guys.
I'd like to see you succeed here.
- Thanks, appreciate it.
- Yeah, thanks so much.
And then the last thing I'll say is,
We do our best to give back to open source tools as well,
especially the ones that we work on.
So you'll see me sometimes being annoying
opening issues on GitHub.
And I think that's another big piece of this
is as we build on open source tools,
making sure we contribute back to them
in ways that are meaningful and actually helpful
is certainly really important as well.
And definitely something to say.
- Yeah, fantastic.
- Something to explicitly say.
- All right, well, I think that's about it
for the time that we have to talk about
extending notebooks and Mido and all this.
Really cool stuff that you all built.
Before I let you out of here, there's the final two questions.
And however many, in what order and whatnot you want to take this,
just jump on in.
Notable PyPI package out there, something you've come across,
like, "Oh, this library is awesome. It doesn't get enough attention."
Anything come to mind?
Yes, honestly, something that a lot of our users use,
and Jake, actually, feel free to hop in after me,
but I would say pandas profiling.
It's a tool that does somewhat similar stuff to us,
but it's a super great tool for many of our users,
and I don't think a ton of people know about it.
And it works right in JupyterLab as well.
- And one thing that's cool,
there's a package called Lux, which is cool.
I don't even know if it's actually still being supported
or developed at all, but I read lots of blogs about that.
So you look up Lux Python.
It's cool, it does like automatic graph suggestions.
So you can pass in a data frame and it'll suggest,
it'll sort of give you options of visualizations
to just click on and use,
which I think is a really quick thing.
You know, it's not the most like, why fully fledged package,
but for what it does, I think it's really good.
- It's these little things that people don't know about.
They're like, oh, that's cool.
I'm gonna go check this out.
It might help you.
Python API for intelligent visual discovery.
I love it.
Thanks.
Aaron, got any ideas?
- I might not fit the exact mold,
but we're really close and we love the deep note product.
Like it's pushing notebooks forward.
So trying to add collaboration, live collaboration,
like Google Sheets and Google Docs,
it has a lot more, potentially a more friendly interface
than some of the rough Jupyter notebooks
that are a little bit bare bones at times.
- Okay, yeah, really cool.
I've spoken to the DeepNote people just a little bit
and they're doing cool stuff for sure.
Yeah, Jake?
- Yeah, he's cool.
Obviously there's another notebook called Hex.
We had to talk to their founders recently
about some potential collaboration,
but they're doing cool stuff as well.
- Okay, fantastic.
All right, and then if you're gonna write some Python code,
notebooks, obviously, if anything else,
what editor do you use?
- We're big VS Code users.
- Okay, all three of you guys?
- Jake when he dabbles.
Yeah, no, VS Code junkies.
We, I don't know, I was thinking about this
yesterday, recently, it's like, I wish at school
someone taught a class called
actually doing software development in the real world
because I feel like I lived my whole school life
writing Java code in Eclipse and like crashing my computer.
And then I started using VS Code
and it was like this transcendent moment of bliss
where I was like, oh, programming can actually be fun.
And it turns out the tools I was using
just made my computer heat up to a thousand degrees
and burn my lap, so.
- Yeah, I really agree with that statement
that there's a bit of a mismatch of what is taught
in sort of computer science and then what is expected
people when they get out in the real world.
And it might not be as academically highly valued,
but really good, like working with tools like VS Code
and PyCharm and these other tools that help you write code
better, quicker, and some of the software engineering sides,
I think that really could be valuable for people.
- No, totally.
And also, the other thing I'll say is for developers
like us maybe who came out of school and moved
into a startup and didn't have a ton of experience,
let's say writing Python in production in the wild.
The other thing I would highly recommend
is continuous integration.
You can set it up through GitHub or GitLab, I'm sure,
if you use that as well.
Testing your code automatically on a server,
huge productivity gains for us
and really has increased our confidence
that we're able to deliver the best possible product
and not something anyone ever told us about
when we were in school.
- No, go implement a database in Lisp.
Okay.
(laughing)
John out in the audience has a quick funny comment
about the editors.
NeoVim, of course.
That's starting to get some attention lately as well.
Very cool.
- I'm scared of anything with the word Vim in it scares me,
but I'm sure you're a superhuman for using it.
- So you know how you generate a proper random number
or character set?
Is you get a first year computer science student into Vim
and then you ask them to quit.
- Yeah, I mean, you've seen the most likes
that go over for the questions.
I'm trapped in Vim, how the hell do I get out of here?
- Exactly. - So funny.
It's like half of what Stack Overflow does
is answering just that question specifically.
- Exactly.
Yeah, for sure, that's great.
All right, so final call to action, you guys.
People are excited about this.
How do they get started?
Where do they go from there?
- Docs.triimido.io, which is our documentation website.
And if you're an organization or enterprise,
just reach out to me at my email, jeke@sagacollab.com.
We'll have more links here.
Or if you go to the plans page, there's a link there.
But yeah, the documentation docs at tribeminer.io.
You can download it and start using it today.
- Yeah, right on.
Also, I'll throw out there while you're on the docs,
watch the videos.
Right, that's a quick and easy way
to really see what it's about.
And before we wrap it up here,
Mr. Hypermagnetic has a little comment,
like that Vim is the eighth,
it's like the eighth of the deadly sins.
- It's weird though,
because it's not just the eighth of the deadly sins,
it's the eighth of the deadly sins
that also like 10% of the population swears
is the greatest thing since sliced bread.
And so it's like half the popular,
like me, I'm terrified of the damn thing,
but my father is like, "Hmm, son."
Like my dad's a dad from the 80s,
he's like, "Son, have you heard of this?"
And I'm like, "Dad, please, I can't take this right now."
- Yeah, it's amazing.
My co-host in Python Bytes, Brian Okken,
he's all about Vim, everything's Vim, it's great.
But yeah, I haven't got there.
I did some Emacs and then I kind of did
some other more UI-oriented things.
Awesome.
All right, well, Jake, Aaron, Nate,
it's been fun to have you here.
Congratulations on this project.
I think it's gonna help a lot of people
get into Python and just data science quicker, more easy.
- Awesome.
- Yeah. - Thanks Michael.
- Thanks for having us.
- Great chat.
- You bet.
- Talk soon.
- Bye. - Bye.